---
layout:     post
title:      遇到问题--Coredump文件的选区配置
subtitle:   通过该配置，可去掉无需（分析）的共享内存段，减少coredump文件所造成的空间浪费
date:       2019-08-07
author:     VK
catalog: true
tags:
    - Linux
    - Kernel
    - Coredump
    - Debug
---

# Selective core dump in Linux - How can I select the dumped sections?

> Question：
>
> I am looking for a way to select the sections and memory regions included in a core dump.My application's core dump size is about 30GB, most of it is in preallocated buffers which I don't even need in debugging (and can be zeroed later). However, since the dump is so big, it takes too much time for the application to finish crashing and begin recovery.
>
> Can anyone think of a way to select in advance which segments will be in the core dump?
> Thanks

---

> Answer:
>
> According to the core(5) manpage, you can set which mappings are written to the core file:
>
> Since kernel 2.6.23, the Linux-specific **/proc/PID/coredump_filter** file can be used to control which memory segments are written to the core dump file in the event that a core dump is performed for the process with the corresponding process ID.
>
> The value in the file is a bit mask of memory mapping types (see mmap(2)). If a bit is set in the mask, then memory mappings of the corresponding type are dumped; otherwise they are not dumped. The bits in this file have the following meanings:
>
>        bit 0  Dump anonymous private mappings.
>        bit 1  Dump anonymous shared mappings.
>        bit 2  Dump file-backed private mappings.
>        bit 3  Dump file-backed shared mappings.
>        bit 4 (since Linux 2.6.24)
>               Dump ELF headers.
>        bit 5 (since Linux 2.6.28)
>               Dump private huge pages.
>        bit 6 (since Linux 2.6.28)
>               Dump shared huge pages.

>By default, the following bits are set: 0, 1, 4 (if the CONFIG_CORE_DUMP_DEFAULT_ELF_HEADERS kernel configuration option is enabled), and 5. The value of this file is displayed in hexadecimal. (The default value is thus displayed as 33.) Memory-mapped I/O pages such as frame buffer are never dumped, and virtual DSO pages are always dumped, regardless of the coredump_filter value.
>...
>This file is only provided if the kernel was built with the CONFIG_ELF_CORE configuration option.
>
>for example you can $(echo 1 > /proc/PID/coredump_filter )

